# 💡 Open-Closed Principle (OCP)



## A software artifact should be open for extension but closed for modification

Bertrand Meyer, 1988 book - Object Oriented Software Construction:

> A module will be said to be open if it is still available for extension. For example, it should be possible to add fields to the data structures it contains, or new elements to the set of functions it performs.

> A module will be said to be closed if it is available for use by other modules. This assumes that the module has been given a well-defined, stable description (the interface in the sense of information hiding).






Well...



1. It made sense back then.
2. How people explain it now is bullshit.



## The goal is to make the system easy to extend without incurring a high impact of change

💡 This goal is accomplished by partitioning the system into components and arranging those components into a dependency hierarchy that protects the higher-level component from changes in lower-level components

💡 Dependency arrows point toward the components that we want to protect from change

> ~Clean Architecture



## If component A should be protected from changes in component B, then component B should depend on component A

> ~Clean Architecture

Why would you need to protect it from changes?






## 💡 It's all about flexibility and OCP is a process

Low coupling and protection against variations is not motivated in all areas.

You must pick your battles in design, be they at the macro-architectural level or the humble instance field.

A good designer can identify the likely points of instability or variation and apply PV to those points but not others.

Otherwise, effort is wasted and complexity may arise (and with it, the chance for defects).



## Rules:

1. Make your components/hooks/functions/modules easy to extend
2. And do it only when you need it

"Fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice, shame on me"
